welcome everyone to motivation or
garbage but soon to be viral hit show
coming to you from the impact Theory
Studios in Los Angeles
I'm your host agent Smith and this is a
show in which two players face off as we
plumb the depths of the human experience
by looking at phenomena around the world
and asking one big important question
motivation or garbage nice why do we do
this because we have nothing better to
do and because we have we and over 18
million other people on facebook we're
inspired by a little clip called
motivation is garbage which was taken
from an episode of impact Theory
recorded in this very studio if you've
seen that video you'll certainly
remember our contestants so let's meet
them now
contestant number one inspires and
educates large audiences the world over
as a speaker writer and commentator
she's the author of the books the
five-second rule and stop saying you're
fine a contributing editor for Success
Magazine an impact Theory alum a
Footwear fashionista ladies and
gentlemen please give a warm welcome for
Mel don't call me motivational Rock oh
wow that is elated quickly contestant
number two is a serial entrepreneur the
co-founder of quest nutrition and the
former king of remedial jobs he's a
self-described brain fanatic who hates
working out even though he does it
religiously ladies and gentlemen the man
who used to stand outside of Cheesecake
Factory on Saturday mornings waiting for
it to open the white rabbit himself and
your host of impact Theory to come with
finest mr. Tom bill you yeah that was
the best intro I've ever heard that was
really good alright one quick
announcement well the hair though so
what are having okay all right easy
contestant Mel will be doing a live cast
with Success Magazine from this studio
in just a few hours so be sure to check
it out
she's going to show you how to build the
life of your design and use the tools of
confidence courage and clarity to make
it happen
tune in at 5:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight
Time go to success com forward slash
impact will drop the link in the
comments all right here's how to play
the game it's very
I'll present a topic and each contestant
will hold up a card showing motivation
or garbage then each player will follow
up explaining their responses now for
those of you watching at home you too
can play along by sharing your answers
to each question in the comments will be
giving away prizes along the way plus if
you write in your own topic that you
want the contestants to respond to put
it in the comments and the one with the
most likes by the end of the show will
be chosen for the final question and you
will win our grand prize featuring 25
books from Tom's reading list plus a
signed copy of Mel's smash book one
five-second rule to impact theory
t-shirts one for you and your boo a
15-minute call with tom bill you and a
one-year audible subscription so you can
level up your life so get those creative
juices flowing and start submitting your
topics now are the contestants ready I
don't know what I win when I beat Tom
well we'll play all right then all right
what is going to guard it with our first
topic Dwayne the rock Johnson
all right contestants get your get your
cards ready how do we do this
and on three reveal your answer
motivation all right we'll start with
contestant number one Mel Robbins why is
the rock motivating to you um well if I
have my facts straight which is
questionable
he was once homeless and he came from
literally the bottom in terms of hitting
rock bottom and clawed his way out and
followed his passion and I also love the
fact that the fast and furious movie
franchise was something that everybody
kind of snubbed their nose at and
laughed at and now they're laughing all
the way to the bank
by following their intuition and I also
love the fact that he said even though
Tom doesn't want to talk politics he
didn't quote an idea but he might just
run for president go rock alright you
love it motivating Tom what do you think
um to me anybody that can do what he's
done to his physique is utterly
astonishing that kind of physical
transformation comes with a mental
transformation so my boy for Swayze
gets motivation or
two motivations for the rock let's go to
art now by the way if he runs for
president although there we have it
there we go let's go for the next topic
and it is the concept of no days off All
Right contestants response is ready and
Tom let's start with you on this one
he's giving a motivation yeah is it true
that you need days off yes occasionally
but to make it something that you
celebrate I think it's a mistake I think
people should be going literally as hard
as they can trust yourself if you're
screaming for a day off take one but as
like a standing thing I think it's okay
not to alright and it's inspiring in
fact alright no way I think it's
insanity the science is against it and
it's complete and utter garbage I was
just with Brendon Burchard and the guy
said on stage that he thinks seventeen
weeks off a year and it was the first
time in a while that I've been really
jealous of a dude and I thought there is
something wrong here because I have been
working too hard I'm running two
companies and and and I'm I got three my
husband and I have three kids and and
you know one of the things that has
really struck me as an entrepreneur is
that without the downtime without the
ability to take a day off from the grind
the push the stress to move the push to
build the drive you do not have the
ability to reset your brain you don't
have the ability to do the productive
kind of procrastination on ideas that
you're noodling and so I think it's
really critical for your success to be
intentional intentional about taking
time off whatever that means for you
I've actually wiped out the whole summer
I'm doing four speeches of summer that's
it because I haven't had the ability to
focus on creative projects because I
have no time off so I think it's
complete garbage complete right there
you go difference of opinion all right
let's move on to our third topic money
contestants get your responses ready and
what do we got two motivating answers ah
let's start with Mel um yeah I'm just
really motivated by money not not that
that's the number one driver but it's
such a fun
game and it's to me I just have a lot of
fun making a lot of money however all of
the research shows that most of us are
not intrinsically motivated by money
that's really not the reason why I do
what I do I do what I do because I love
connecting with people I love the moment
that people have an awakening but the
idea that I can make money lots of money
doing the things that I love and provide
for my family that is so motivating to
me but if I hated what I was doing money
alone wouldn't be a motivator but yes
very motivating great answer Tom what do
you think I pretty famously chase money
for a long time only to come up
emotionally empty so I can say having
been on both sides of the equation that
people will forever chase money because
money is real once you understand what
you want to do with the money it's no
longer just an inert lump of cash which
can do about one thing and that's
release heat energy which if you light
it on fire will keep you nice and warm
but really truly the things that the
grandest things that we're going to do
as a society or even as an individual
are going to need resources so you're
either going to be asking for them from
somebody else you're going to be
accumulating those resources yourself
but at the end of the day you need that
and if you've read the book the rational
optimist by Matt Ridley he talks about
specialization and how basically society
is ever going to move forward towards
specializing and once you specialize you
need some sort of economic vehicle to
make that happen we're not trading
seashells the thing that we decided to
trade is money so there is tremendous
tremendous power to money because of its
ability to facilitate so I think when
people lament the emptiness of money's
because they don't know what they're
trying to do with it I'm shocked that
you said this really I'm shocked because
I've heard you say that that you I can't
remember the exact sentence that you say
but I've seen you say it online I've
seen you say it on a stage and it has it
was something about the fact that that
money isn't what's important to you and
so I find it really interesting maybe it
was when I don't remember the exact part
of the story but I'm very surprised to
hear you say
motivation I expected you to say it's
complete another garbage because I also
know you're the kind of guy that is
truly following your heart and throwing
your hat over the ring so anyway just
got to throw that out there yeah I love
it let's move on to our probably scoring
this by the way it the points are made
up the rules don't matter
oh yeah there we go okay ha ha ha we got
some welcome everyone all right number
four Millennials millenials okay be a
second to think about it and answers all
right oh we have a split decision here
well let's start with Tom and then we'll
get to you Mel um I at the end of the
day it's a large group of people and
anytime you're getting a large group of
people together you can count me and
there's going to be an endless number of
fascinating people I don't like I am of
the Goggins philosophy of tough and the
[__] out buttercups
like that at the end of the day like
that I'm at is that from oh my god
God what is that I don't know what that
is whatever I can God allow a brief
tangent guys Goggins with my most recent
episode of impact theory just dropped
yesterday in fact today today hey now I
was on a plane so I'm sorry they didn't
have time I get a pass but he's a Navy
SEALs from the book living with a seal
he is unbelievable this guy is literally
like my hero I want to be this guy when
I grow up he's absolutely no because we
need you Tom we need you to you if I
could be Goggins at least briefly that
would be deeply emotionally satisfying
so anyway he is he is looking for people
to really step up and toughen up and I
think I'm a huge huge huge proponent of
that having said that like having worked
with as Maleny many Millennials as I
have like anything there's just an
incredible number of awesome people in
there so yeah as any huge swath of
people get my thumbs up well I kinda had
a split decision because on one hand
there are aspects to the way that
Millennials get typecast that I find
really exciting as an entrepreneur and
you know the ability to really figure
things
our professional Googlers super
tech-savvy in a good way being self
driven and an understanding the
importance that an individual can make
in an opinion that you can have and
that's something that a lot of
generations it wasn't instilled in us
because we were not raised with social
media and so at the age of 18 I didn't
have a platform to broadcast myself
unless I was standing on a table drunk
at Dartmouth screaming you know
something like that or arguing with my
mother at the kitchen table so there's a
psychological shift that I really love
the reason why I said garbage though is
because I'm torn because I think
whenever you take a large group of
people like Tom was saying and you
typecast them and now you've got all
these people going out of the work force
saying oh I'm going to tell you how to
talk to Millennials and and I think
human beings at the end of the day are
human beings and maybe some of the
characteristics that that Millennials
get trash for whether it's the
self-centeredness or the inability to be
managed or thinking you're going to be
CEO the second you graduate from college
those things tend to get magnified as
General General owlet is that even a
word you know thank you
and so I hate that aspect because what
we're seeing in Millennials is that
they've just given themselves permission
to really bring the things that we all
want which is recognition and feeling a
sense of importance and wanting to make
a contribution they have the they've
been raised in a environment where that
has been brought to the surface and for
your elders like myself I'm not going to
necessarily like yank you into this
because you look like you're 30 but we
were I was not raised that way and so it
was a learned skill so I don't like
typecasting everybody but there's
attributes that Millennials have that I
love so I don't know now you know what
it's like to be almost 50 and menopausal
completely confusing alright great ends
there never know what it's like to be
menopausal but you know hey Chris
alright let's move on to our next topic
for this one we're going to be giving
away a copy of the five-second rule Mel
Robbins book so if you participate and
put your answer in the comments we will
choose a winner at the end so
contestants
dranzer's and oh is that that's yes my
home it's garbage man this was a
complete gimmick that I created in order
to try to to get rich because I'm
motivated by money tomorrow that's what
that is all right good strategy how'd it
work um it's been fantastic actually
it's been really incredible not I mean
just because of the difference I was
making for people and beyond my wildest
dreams frankly really cool excellent Tom
what do you think I'll be really honest
when I first heard the idea I didn't
think it was like a get-rich-quick
scheme but it did seem too easy and I
was like oh God like when they were
pitching you I was like is it really
like enough meat on that bone the
response that we've gotten from people
who are like this has changed my life
it's just undeniable like people can say
whatever they want but we alone have had
hundreds and hundreds of comments of
people thing like this changed my life
it's crazy you know the thing that was a
joke obviously what I was saying but so
the hardest thing for me because like
you I'm so interested in science and as
much as I joke around I'm also a nerdy
kind of serious person so when I came up
with a concept that's so stupid sounding
it was a little weird to talk about it
because I'm basically saying you can
change your life in five seconds no
really and no it's not the same as just
do it it's actually a tool and there's
science behind it and so it's on its
face it sounds like the dumbest concept
in the world but when you get somebody
to try it and they instantly start
breaking to have it a procrastination
it's just like motivation or anything
you're on a fast right now and so you
could tell somebody go on is a keto so
how you say that's Cato keto keto is
that how you say it
yeah keto diet yes I don't know what the
keto diet is but I know that you're on
it right now and I saw that you're
eating some sort of guide the how do you
say that in Shane lamb stuff that you're
reading that was not that was
technically a cheat by the way I didn't
eat anything that was going into the the
fatty food so during a fast is water
only but you're you see you're on water
only water I better win because you're
basically delusional at the moment right
so um when when you give somebody a
formula to follow even if it sounds
simple like yeah go on a fast it'll
cleanse your body you'll be like yeah
that sounds whatever you actually
implement something that sounds simple
you realize that holy cow
these simple concepts work they really
do we over complicate everything
meditation another another practice that
you have that you're adamant about it's
really simple most people don't do it
but it really works and I think that
some of the most powerful things in life
are the simplest things I mean I think
we all know that if we were just a
little bit more kind to people
particularly our spouses your marriage
would be better I think we know that it
the more you cheer for people you you
100% like that's the only management
philosophy you need cheer for people
that's it assume good attention that's
all you need to know and if you put that
simple idea into practice
yeah lots of Harvard scientists will
write about why and we'll be bestsellers
that are written about it but it does
come down to the smallest steps that we
don't do and so this is one of these
ideas that making 5-second decisions I
think we all know we overthink and I
think we all know that we have these
moments of intense wisdom and yet within
five seconds flat our minds talk us out
of it and so I'm trying I'm desperately
trying to teach as many people as
possible that every single change comes
down to a five second decision and that
you can change everything and that is
resigned as you are or is defeated as
you are or as tired as you are the
answer really is do what you say you're
going to do if your wisdom speaks and
you start to talk just five four three
two one and push yourself if you can
find power in that tiny moment you will
win every single time and slowly your
life will start to change that is
well-earned applause leggo check out the
book and do we have a winner from the
comments anyone judges
[Music]
and I'll find that book for you Sandra
you've won a copy of the five-second
rule congratulations let's keep it going
here oh my god we have more you got my
awesome yet more number six oh and I did
not wear mine today all right
contestants what do we got here what our
Honda motivation work you're like Tom
tell us about kicks to me it's you know
a nice simple question of personal
expression and you I actually really get
into collecting which is probably bad
but from comic books to kicks like I
really enjoy that process so yeah
finding some cool kicks and having
something to set your sights on and go
for it you know it's motivating to me
and you know both Tom and I share an
affinity for shoes we had different
tastes and shoes I haven't seen your
glitter ones you haven't you had more
and some some spikes you have worn some
with spikes what's interesting as a
woman is that when you take ownership
over kind of how you want to present
yourself that is motivating and powerful
and you demonstrate something and one of
the interesting thing is things about
just the fact that I tend to wear a lot
of high tops on stage nine times out of
ten nine times out of ten when somebody
says something nasty it's usually
somebody complaining about the sneakers
really yes that a woman shouldn't dress
like that and so I find it very
motivating to make personal choices
about how you want to present yourself
so that it demonstrates who you are and
for me that's about authenticity
approachability a sense of fun and you
know that kind of thing and so a
surprise and so that it's really
interesting never fails never fails at
all sorry about that
great all right let's move on I got a
woman okay none of the other on the
women here are shocked by that yes
madness let's move on to our next topic
suffering and pain with by the way
that's David image of David Goggins all
right really legend
how old is he Goggins I'm gonna guess
mid-40s sounds about right
all right what do we got here suffering
in pain motivating or garbage I know
where the cough response from Tom Billy
a huge I think I have to just go and
like not do the same as you all right
Mel yeah let's go let's have you started
off why is suffering and paying garbage
um because we spend too much time there
too many of us have a habit of dwelling
in self-inflicted suffering and it is
garbage you don't have to all right
great
Tom what do you think I think that you
only meet yourself in suffering and
while I understand what you're saying
about the way that people get themselves
in a twist mentally and that's super
counterproductive I think we spend our
entire lives moving away from suffering
and once you're able to put yourself
into self-inflicted suffering like a
fast you really are working out or
running doing a [__] marathon like
whatever it is like in those moments you
really realize who you are and you
realize how close your boundaries and
your limitations and where you tap out
are like I can't tell you the number of
people that like started too fast until
they got hungry and then they're like
you know back-channeling DMing me like
what do I do
to actually get to the other side and
the answer is not tolerate that [__]
from yourself like literally not
tolerate it and that's the answer to
have a hard fast bright line about who
you are what you're willing to tolerate
from yourself but you don't know that's
easy to say until you have to put it to
the test and then it's like who are you
really
that's suffering baby okay I think
there's a difference that fear on the
Goggins high right now plus you haven't
eaten in two days I might not like this
all the time like this you are pretty
intense that is true that is true but so
there's the feet I think you're talking
about intentional suffering versus the
unintentional self-impose well now let's
yes if you want to get really
complicated let's take when you were
obese okay so what category was that it
well so now like Oh
I'd never call myself truly obese
because I think that's unfair
to make it seem like I've clawed my way
back from that deficit many many people
have struggled wave how many were useful
deciding to err B's okay maybe not yeah
you're kind of know I've chose me I've
seen obese and sadly it is almost sad
for me that I've never been obese just
approved in my tooth so I could that is
my flap that will go higher all right
now you're ready for the clip that's
going to go viral I think I've been
addicted to heroin because then people
would see like if it wasn't super
dangerous and really stupid I would get
addicted to heroin just so I could get
back off of it right like you would
actually try heroin if it wasn't
insanely stupid yes but I recognize how
stupid that is which is why I'm not
going to do it but in terms in terms of
giving yourself something like a fast
something to prove your level of
discipline yeah be pretty amazing it
would be stupid I'm not gonna do it
don't panic oh god whatever you're like
a David Blaine is that his name moment
yes and what do you know like that like
mainstream
motivational garbage oh you wanna vation
100% right I think it's a guy it's like
coming up with these problems to solve
like could I possibly be submerged in
ice for 25 hours and still ya survive
bathroom yeah yeah I don't your your
wife's going to come running in here at
a minute and shove as bad if I keep
pushing the heroin thing but seriously
like do you think that if you you think
that you could be an addiction like that
yes of course
really of course it's been done right so
other people of beat ago it would trial
but I'm just wise enough to recognize
how stupid that would be and the the
devastating physical emotional and
lifestyle effect that it would have so
would I ever really do it no of course
not because that would be [__] absurd
but could I do it yes of course see I
don't think I could do it I guess the
reason why is because I maybe I could I
I've met too many people that are
struggling with the opioid addiction
that turned into a heroin addiction and
has read too many studies about the fact
that those drugs completely change your
neural pathways and so you're haunted
for
rest of your life with that trigger so
it would be a life time of
self-discipline I mean I had a hard
enough time truly walking past the booze
between 5:00 and 8:00 o'clock at night
when I say to myself I'm not going to
drink tonight and I don't drink but it
is a hunting for three hours straight
and so to sign up for a life time where
I would be like that 24 hours oh my god
I think I could do it but I wouldn't
want to try that's an interesting
question you're the kind of guy that I
could see doing something like that like
being that I'm not saying that you
should but I I I really like you're the
kind of guy that is you you want to
inspire people and you want to teach
people and unfortunately in today's
world most people only paying attention
when it's extreme here's the great news
tell me that doesn't hold interest me I
would never do this for anyone else ever
under any circumstance like that would
really be [__] so do I like that the
things that I've learned are useful to
other people yes but I don't consider
myself a teacher you don't what does
that mean I've some technical
difficulties bear with us okay oh that's
all right I thought we were having a
call-in show all of a sudden I'm like
we're back to my radio days come on
let's go that's going to be the next
thing is to let people call in to these
that would be that's an intranet sorry
I've never that's an interesting
question well I think somebody's done it
I bet somebody has gotten addicted to
some type of drug in order to show
people that you can get off it'd be
crazy but impressed it would be totally
crazy well I think that leads into our
next topic which is an interesting one
psychedelics Oh Oh waiting or garbage
all right um we have Tom's response Mel
I'm not sure well I don't really like
them okay - garbage responses we'll
start with Tom since very I don't have
the courage to find out if it's
motivating so that's the truth because
I've never done it I don't feel I have
the right to say that it's motivating it
might be amazing it might be
transformative life-altering but I'm too
big of a chicken to find out
so so he's definitely not doing heroin
other words if you can't take shrooms
then you definitely are not to know let
let there be maximum clarity I'm never
actually going to get addicted this you
don't like to lose control psychedelics
is that that's for somebody that wants
an experience where they want to go out
of control I'm not worried about losing
control that's not what freaks me out
with Freesat matters permanent brain
damage 100 cent I'm so brain protective
I'm never going to head a soccer ball
I'm never going to do a kickboxing match
like anything that has potential brain
trauma at the end of it nope why because
it's there's two things that once they
happen I can't retrograde the loss of my
wife and brain damage you can take money
lose a business all that whatever
doesn't matter you can build your way
back brain damage that's it done that's
true I remember when my dad had my dad
they found a what's called an aneurysm
that hadn't blown up yet and they found
it just antler he had collapsed on a
golf course he thought he had vertigo
they did one of his scans and they're
like oh no vertical but guess what you
know any on your resume and we got to
take it out flow and I remember asking
him because he's a doc he said is that
this was one of his five second moments
I called him or he called me to tell me
that this whole thing was going down and
I remember being on the phone with him
and he was explaining that he's going to
go have surgery at the University of
Michigan and they were going to cut his
head open and pull off the top and do
all the stuff to try to get to this
aneurysm and I and I had this feeling
rise up where I thought I wonder if he's
scared and then I immediately my mind
started saying don't get him upset like
you don't want that thing to blow like
don't be the reason don't ask him a
question that and that's immediately
what I thought like you could make this
aneurysm rupture if you get him upset
and I went you know what five four three
two and I said dad are you very scared
and he said you know Mel he said I had a
really incredible life he said I grew up
I got to do it I never thought I do I
became a doctor I married your mom we've
we've been together for 50 years you and
your brother turned out he said I've
really got to do what I've wanted to do
with my life and he said the only thing
that
could ever ask for is more time and he
said you know watching my dad had a
stroke and see him so debilitated and
then caring for our best friend Suzy who
died of ALS he said I would never ever
want to live in that state and so am I
scared no he said I'm really lucky I'm
lucky that we found it I'm lucky that we
have a chance to fix it and I'm lucky
that something didn't happen that
completely debilitated me I'll tell you
it was one of the most intimate
conversations I had ever had with my
father I almost didn't ask the question
because I was afraid of upsetting him I
was afraid of the intimacy as so many of
us are of asking like the scary
questions upsetting somebody and I
learned a lot about him and that's
exactly what his fear was the same as
yours and the surgery went fine and he's
doing great but I think it's important
to know who you are and what you want no
question lovely response would you like
to expand on anything well I'm like Tom
I've experimented I'm not going to give
you a long laundry list but I didn't
like them like at the end of the day
through all the the experimenting and
really at the end of the day don't like
feeling out of control and so that the
wave that hits you if you take a
psychedelic drug that would create a
majorly stressful unhappy situation for
me at this moment so I think they're
complete garbage but for those of you
live in love to be completely out of
control and out of your mind you're
probably very motivating all right now
for our next topic we're going to be
giving away another prize all right the
motivation is garbage Clint exact
probably team we're going to give away
sure our do shirt in the impact Theory
store all because if you've seen the
clip you know motivation is garbage and
you just need to take action so let's
hear from our contestant nice newsy
mom we'll start with you is motivation
garbage no I get how it's meant and it
winds me up to know and in fact where's
my a camera well some are you my a
camera alright let me just say this
right now if you have any intention of
going to that clip and leaving a comment
about how you're actually motivated and
this woman is dumb because she's saying
motivation is garbage that is to totally
look at the world from how can I shut
things off how can I close my mind how
can I not be open to a piece of
information because the clip is amazing
it's resonated with a lot of people
motivation will let you down at the most
inopportune moments and so to not look
past like just the binary statement of
motivation is garbage which obviously
she's saying to make a point to get
people's attention to not look past that
to the message that she's trying to
convey it winds me up when I get those
comments I want to just like crawl
through the computer she do I laugh yeah
I laugh because you're a sucker you fell
for a headline and you know what else we
know
I know anyways you probably didn't even
watch a clip you just sounded off in the
comments and if you're somebody that
does that you're robbing yourself
because you're not actually trying to
learn anything the point of that clip is
to make you understand that the major
mistake that everybody makes is waiting
waiting to [__] feel like it waiting
for somebody to pick you waiting for the
right time waiting for you to feel
motivated it's not coming for the big
stuff for the hard stuff it requires a
push always has always will nobody is
coming to save your ass it is up to you
and so if you want to change anything
about your life stop sitting around and
wasting your goddamn life and start
pushing yourself whether it's a fast or
it is starting a business or it is
changing how you talk to your spouse or
it's changing
the kind of parent that you are you got
one life and all you need to do is turn
on the frickin news and see the kind of
shift that's going on in this world it's
both amazing and terrifying you never
know when your time is up but I do know
that you've got time right now to change
things and so the thing you should
change is you should take 100%
responsibility for your future you
should decide what is it that you really
want your life to look like because you
only get one of them and it's not going
to start again but you could start
building your future right now and that
begins the moment that you realize that
you're never going to feel like doing
the things that are hard and never going
to feel like stepping out of your
comfort zone and the second that you do
the second that you push through you win
you win because you see yourself
becoming the kind of person who takes
action you see yourself believing in
your ideas you see yourself disregarding
your own excuses that is the source of
confidence it's the willingness to try
it doesn't start with belief it starts
with the push so do yourself a freakin
favor and stop thinking about all this
stuff and stop commenting and push
yourselves do something who's going to
win the shirt I think well I guess the
future is going to be our day we have a
winner
Amy on Facebook you just won yourself a
new shirt yeah and dear audience aren't
you glad you tuned in today because this
is some powerful stuff all right now
let's get a time check from our judges
can we keep going we have several more
topics awesome all right I'm going next
topic
artificial intelligence where's one
that's just terrifying I'm going to do
this one because it's alright there's a
lot of me so artificial intelligence is
obviously so there's an incredible TED
talk I'm sure you've already seen it
about the biologist from Harvard who
talked it's a he just gave a talk in
Vancouver where he wrote a letter to a
young scientist and it's all the things
that he wants scientists to understand
and one of the things that he talks
about in this particular TED talk is the
fact that the pace of Technology is and
you talk about this all the time is is
eclipsing our ability to keep up with it
that we cannot right now even predict
what the technology will be like ten
years from now artificial intelligence
is going to be the thing that changes
the next ten years of our lives when I
when you think about just the technology
of talking to Siri or the augmented
reality of what they just released on
Instagram or what they've had on
snapchat or you think about the learning
intelligence of these apps that we have
that start to serve up things to you
this is only going to get exponentially
more significant in terms of your day to
day life that's going to have profound
changes for jobs for how people behave
for what's required of you how much
you're relying on machines and so you
know it scares me because I don't know
what's coming and I don't know I mean I
know a LAN musk is worried enough about
it that he's starting to dig into the
ethics behind it but it's exciting
because it makes life easier and it's
exciting because it will help doctors
diagnose you because artificial
intelligence and can crunch 50 thousand
records at once and then using
predictive modeling and the Watson
technology to IBM help with the
diagnosing of your particular cancer
which is amazing but there are
implications that I can't even wrap my
brain around in terms of humanity and
ethics and that scares the hell out of
me fair enough I think a lot of people
live there I think a lot of people if
they can't understand
then there's a an automatic bias to the
negatives that people - I mean just
think about it from an algorithmic
perspective as a human being to make
sure that that thing rustling in the
bush isn't a lion instead of someone
that you love and care about very much
we immediately go to negative
assumptions but for anybody who's read
michio kaku book on basically what the
future looks like and he talks about the
different classifications of societies
and I forget it's like a level 5 Society
can harness the power of a star that's
where it starts to get interesting and
I'm telling people look beyond like yes
it's going to cure illnesses yes it's
going to do a lot of amazing things yes
but it's going to change jobs but it's
like look beyond that to when as a
species were able to fully transcend
biology live forever oh my god yes it's
convention right I wanted you all under
percent you do anybody who says that
they don't like Albert that's total
idubbbz
crazy talk because all you've ever known
is life well I'm also going to be
trapped like by the time they figure
that out I'm going to be 80 so I'm going
to be in the diaper and like everybody
else is going to be other part of my
life let me let me enlighten you to the
future that's coming so first of all
every year that you live your life is
going to be getting better so what I
guess I would say you're talking to a
person that can hardly believe that a
Ford Focus can self-park I see these
commercials so like where you're going
with all of this okay so tell me what's
coming yeah so every year it's going to
get a little bit better so by the time
you're I mean you put it better me over
meaning like the Botox is better so I
don't really won't even have to think
about Botox because first of all with a
skin gun you'd literally be able to do a
facial peel it can determine how deep it
goes of each layer of the skin does
different things and they'll be able to
3d print the skin on you this stuff is
amazing the world is only going to get
better my friends technology is a
one-way street towards hope and
prosperity so if I can just balance
people out I know you're going to go in
and into like some sort of tube and step
out as Gagan bacon Gagan gaga gaga gaga
and Goggin whatever the hell his name is
yes not quite but I like really like
Freaky Friday only
you know with you and Gagan Skagen I am
hopefully now I think it's time to move
on to our next stop all right yeah I
think what's going off the rails all
right next topic whoa all that I can see
that coming
this is not a family show ladies and
gentlemen yeah all right Mel we'll start
with you it's amazing
it gets better especially I get better
well having been married now I'm having
a flesh having been married for 20 years
one would think that it would suck to
only have sex with one person for the
rest of your life but it's actually
pretty incredible and it gets better all
the time
all right great answer Tom it's work
it's not natural to be monogamous you
got to want it you got to be committed
to it you gotta like be intentional
about it but it's amazing great nice
I'll just take it from a neurochemical
is amazing it the the rush from
vasopressin which makes you feel
connected and pair bonding and Trust and
all that wonderful stuff to just the the
physical sensation which is utterly
astonishing so it is nature's greatest
hi you should try it on second Alice I
don't know I've been told about that
right all right oh hey you guys pick the
topic Nikki papi I love it next topic
here so the only thing we wouldn't talk
is politics okay
haters what do we got Tom we're haters
motivating um it's my 8020 rule so 80%
of the time you should spend it in
looking at the things that are beautiful
the people that support you all that
good stuff but 20% of the time knowing
that people out there wants you to fail
is actually incredibly potent for me
like the moments where it's hardest the
moments where I'm in real pain
those are the times where only the
darkness will do and focusing on the
beautiful things I'm trying to create it
just not enough for me at those moments
I really do need to know that somebody
wants me to fail they want to drag me
down so that I can push back against it
all right I find haters really
motivating and I put them in a couple
cat
gouri's I put like there's a whole
especially when when you're in a kind of
a public job whether you're on
television or you put stuff out online
there's a lot of trolls out there so
there's a lot of nasty people that are
probably living in their parents
basements but have nothing better to do
than just sling garbage online so those
folks I don't find motivating if I don't
put bad but the true haters the people
that engage you intellectually that
don't like your ideas that you say
something and it triggers something I
find that so motivating because if you
trigger somebody else there's a kernel
of truth to what you said because most
of us don't care about the things that
that don't matter to us you know you
could call me a lousy parent and I would
be nonplussed at all because I don't
believe that but if you you know I don't
even know what you could say that would
rattle me at this point but if you if
when you have somebody that really
engages you with your ideas it shows me
and it's very motivating because I'm
reaching people I've got ideas that are
provocative you don't want to just
listen to people that say the same old
[__] that you believe otherwise you're
not going to grow when somebody says
something whether it's Tom that says
something about you know us living
forever that pisses me off and scares me
there's that moment where I hate them
and then there's that moment of
expansion where I stop and consider wow
what if he's right and so I think it's a
natural part of the process of growing
and when you get that kind of pushback
particularly when somebody engages you
intellectually as a hater what that
tells me is they're at step one of
changing their own opinion now they
might not never come fully to your side
that you've made them stop and consider
and react you've interrupted the
autopilot and that's really cool now I
also love when you do things that people
agree with and they're inspired by and
they are empowered by so that the
response is more positive I certainly
prefer that but I don't necessarily see
the haters as negative I see it
motivating both great answers I will
award you each 1000 points Wow okay I
went to the game made him up right now
next topic the matrix alright wait we're
giving away a shirt impact Theory shirt
for this one so be sure to put your
answers in the comments and you can win
Tom will of course start with you
because you know this is near and dear
to your heart yeah I mean this movie is
to me the perfect metaphor for what it
means to be a human so the matrix is the
mind you have all these limiting beliefs
that either you've adopted yourself or
been handed to by society and the people
that you love and care about you and all
that and once you can get past those
shut them off then you see the way the
world really works and then you can do
just a lot more more than you probably
ever thought possible
alright great no your response um well
I'm just gonna say garbage it doesn't
suck like it ah you know I didn't say
was a documentary what is sure yeah yes
that's what I thought I saw you hurt
research that said the matre
documentary Terry um I honestly I saw
the matrix so long ago but I can't
really remember all that much and if I
had to be told I've asked on the spot
what's the difference between the red
and the blue pill I wouldn't know oh
yeah so I don't have to say that right
now I feel like I need to rewatch the
movie the next time I see you so I can
actually talk turkey with you it is a
great movie but certainly don't mind
that most people probably don't remember
it the way that I do so I'll have to
hold a screening I think yeah and invite
all friends and family okay oh my gosh
you know what the next time we do a show
together can we do a screening of the
matrix where you see Tom's head in the
background of the front row you know
like that show where they have that
decided I yeah Mystery Science Theater
with that and you do the commentary oh
yeah let's do that
alright we have a winner who got the
impact Theory t-shirt Jessica T Johnson
congratulations you just won the shirt
thanks for playing
next topic cat videos
motivation for garbage time to take
garbage and male motivation malware cat
videos motivation well I I just find
them really funny and if you
intentionally watch them as long as
you're doing it on purpose not for
procrastination I just find the
motivating because they get a short
burst of dopamine I laugh it makes me
love my cat a little bit more not going
to lie I do have a dog too but anyway I
don't know I think they're kind of fun
right little break automatic tom cats
are like inviting an animal into your
house that does not care about your
well-being at all like I literally do
not understand people to have cats that
is a madness like me without cat videos
we can talk cat that's okay
cat video waste of time mildly amusing
at best I literally can't believe that
cats have taken over the internet like
that's crazy down to me but so yeah cuz
they're more intelligence and dogs
that's why because I like to think that
intelligence comes compassion and one
thing that cats
lack is some compassion there's nothing
that's not intelligent to see dogs are
just enough struggling Shepherd too so I
am a very smart dog he gives less shits
about me in the camera I'll put it that
way we have a Maine [__] cat a rescue
cat who I think is so happy that
somebody rescued him from the cage and
he's not going anywhere
I don't know I guess I just feel like
dogs are happy and lovely and loyal and
always there with you but can let a
personality I kind of respect that I
respect the fact that they get angry at
you I respect the fact that they're like
just because I am a feline and I'm of
the animal world does not mean you get
to treat me like that
whoa yes looks good yes thank you I made
that up alright before we go to our next
topic I want to remind everyone that you
can win our grand prize by suggesting a
topic for our contestants two answers
are going to be our final category you
can win 25 books off of tom bill use
reading list five-second rule signed
copy from Mel Robbins to impact Theory
t-shirts an audible subscription is huge
put your comments in now the most liked
it liked comment will win so let's go to
our nice and ultimate category Wow
social media
Oh hard ones well your response oh I
feel like I'm so wishy-washy on all of
these things that's okay
well I'm very conflicted about social
media okay well look I said I was just
at a party last night for my we're back
in Boston it was the last game for my
daughter's varsity lacrosse game and we
were at a big after game party after
they won at somebody's house it was big
potluck with the whole team and there
were literally 30 girls sitting in a
circle with their phones oh and I know
the studies and in fact Instagram is the
one that causes the greatest depression
because it's so curated and their
filters and it's visual and I am really
worried about the consuming side of
social media and even and I know better
and I find myself getting jealous like
I'll see you guys doing all this cool
stuff and these incredible sets and I'm
like [__] you know Tom crushing it I'm a
loser I'm behind I need to get going I
need I need to get a game show like I
need to be doing more more and more and
more more right we all feel it I don't
care how old you are and so in that
regard I think it's garbage I think
we're going to look back on this era the
way we did was smoking and say were we
crazy to let the cigarette companies
advertise to children were we crazy yes
we were because it was addictive and
because there was no kind of social
conscience kind of consciousness about
it and so I worry about this
tremendously both for my own mental
health and for my kids and the kind of
people that they will turn out to be as
a business person I love the fact that I
can connect with people I love the fact
that and as a human being I love the
fact that I can connect with people I
love that people can comment
I love the real-time feedback I love
that we can go live and be connected to
people around like that is the power of
it to do good to connect to facilitate
your dreams to get you information it is
the single most revolutionary force in
the world I mean look at look at the
Arab Spring and all the revolutions that
happened that we're fueled by social
media
look at the way that Manchester after
the bombing at the ariana grande concert
immediately social media like just just
got together and they were putting up
free housing for people and Facebook is
now got to get so there's pieces to this
they're so important for us as a society
and as individuals I'm terrified for all
of us so I don't know what if the answer
is all right great answer we go we do
have one more category education some
what's your answer
I optimism is is my default setting so I
certainly understand your concerns and I
think if I had kids maybe I would be
more concerned but social media has only
given to me it's never taken anything
away and that's somebody saying that who
has people that write in and say I'm an
idiot I'm a fool whatever but like the
overwhelming number of people are
connecting with each other helping each
other they're able to reach out to
people that otherwise they wouldn't be
able to I've been able to connect with
people that I never would have been able
to and when I see when I think back to
how for lack of a better term landlocked
I felt as a kid like not knowing how to
reach out somebody not knowing like how
to connect or get out of Tacoma it was
like I felt so helpless and now it's I
mean wes is here and Wes and I connected
on social and there's Ibrahim we
connected on souls I mean literally all
of our interns or people that we met
socially first and they've become real
people in my life and I think that's the
one criticism people normally leverage
against social media and say we're not
real relationships well they are if you
pursue them and so like to me the the
amount that it's given me is tremendous
and the amount that it's taken away is
so infinitesimal as to not be relevant
it's true like if you think about like
what would your life be like if all of a
sudden all of that disappeared the lack
of connection like the inability to find
the information that you need the the
like as you said like that sense of
isolation that so many of us can feel I
agree with you that at the end of the
day the benefits
way a million fold I just get really
concerned about our individual
psychology and not just for the kids for
the adults yeah all right let's go to
our last category now we have to
announce our winner
LeAnn on Facebook congratulations you've
won the grand prize Wow LeAnn the top
liked comment that you want our
contestants to answer and the topic is
genius sorry it was a random choice but
we like your topic Oh
the topic is genius you're gonna get
your motivating or garbage Zack oh you
don't have to get them you can just run
all right all right Mel genius is being
a genius motivation or garbage I think
it's garbage because to me that when I
hear the word genius I think about
somebody that has a particular expertise
and to me what's really motivating is
people that have and I know Tom I think
believes the same thing to have a growth
mindset meaning you're really focused on
the effort so you're not focused on a
knowledge bank you're focused on the
effort the effort the effort always
trying always getting better and to me
genius is sort of a state that you reach
out of topic so I think it's garbage to
try to go their way better to cultivate
this ability to keep working harder and
harder great at Celeste you Tom so
here's the really bad news I think the
genius is real and I think that there
are some people that are just and I'll
define it as the ability to process data
very rapidly and there are some people
they can just process data very very
rapidly and if you took somebody who is
a genius and somebody who wasn't and
they put an equal amount of work and
effort and all that the genius is just
going to win there's no two ways about
it but having said that the number of
people that qualify for that and then
actually do anything with it is so small
and I think people let them sell myself
get trapped by that and I felt like well
I wasn't born a genius at anything and
so that felt like a death sentence for a
very long time and I found myself doing
weird emotional contortions to try to be
genius at something just so I can feel
good about myself and what do you do
when it's like you really like run the
math and if you run the math boys and
girls guess what your average right that
was a hard awakening for me and so to
realize that just mathematically
speaking I was average and if there was
anything that like running around math
why do you say that well calculate the
odds that you're even born sure but
you're playing that against all people
in the same scenario so that sort of
washes to zero no we're relativistic
species we're looking at how we have
fins on how you remember you were just
saying earlier even on social media like
you're looking at other people and you
feel that you know as well as I do that
the power is in here and that based on
your ancestry based on your unique DNA
based on the fact that you have two
brains that's right two brains from the
recent research from the human genome
project they've actually figured out
that when you're being formed in an
embryonic state the clump of tissue that
separates when your brain is formed one
clump becomes your brain one clump
becomes your gut yes the same DNA that
forms your brain forms your gut in fact
your gut has more unique DNA in it than
your brain and the rest of your entire
body it has the same neurotransmitters
that your brain has so we talk about
body intelligence there is now crazy
amazing science that explains why you
feel things before you think them and so
between your situational intelligence
the experience of your life the unique
DNA that you have that is unique to you
you bring this totally unprecedented
amount of wisdom to the experience of
life there's never going to be another
you never and so the secret to life I
believe is having the clarity to
actually hear yourself to hear that
unique wisdom that that makes you you
and to listen to it to act on it to take
action on it because what makes Tom tick
is different than what makes me tick and
you could measure us based on money or
based on how many people work for us or
how long we've been married or how
raise our all this artificial [__]
the thing that truly matters the people
that you admire most they all have one
thing in common
they've all figured out how to listen to
their own wisdom you think jay-z holds a
caucus before he makes a business
decision
I don't think so neither does Oprah
Winfrey or Bill Gates or Richard Branson
or any of these people that you hold in
high regard as you should or whether
it's a poet or a writer whomever you
love and adore they have one
characteristic in common
they figured out who they are I'm
listening to their instincts and taking
action on it and so can you that's the
answer
passion and living an engaged life and
figuring out what you're supposed to do
it starts in here not out there word
I'll give you a slightly different take
there's nothing special about you you
are average in every way conceivable and
your life is going to be the answer to
one question what are you willing to
become and what price are you willing to
pay to get there that's it you are a
blank canvas my friends and you can
become anything you want but that dual
brain that she's talking about every
[__] buddy has it everyone not
everyone you hate they all start with
the same boring lump of flesh spread out
yes from their head down to their gut
how wonderful
but now it's going to become a question
if you want to be a snowflake snowflake
then you better start synthesizing a lot
of [__] information read a lot of
stuff watch a lot of things experienced
a lot and then have the guts to have an
individual reaction but to think that
you were born special is a mistake is
that clear not to me I think a guy I I
think that is the biggest hunk of
horseshit I've ever heard in my entire
life yes that was not that was garbage
you have something unique and amazing
to offer to the world that nobody else
can do it is your job the purpose of
your life is to figure out who you are
and the way that you do that is you tune
out you tune out the world and you tune
in here yeah you've got to go read you
got to go read you got a watch up ton of
videos you got to tune in to this show
every week you've got
explore you've got experience you got to
fail but then you've always got to
calibrate it against what are your
instincts saying what energizes you what
depletes you that it's really that
simple follow the things that energizes
you follow the things that you're
naturally curious about don't buy into
the [__] he's telling you because you
are you are not only unique I think at
you're a bloody miracle the fact that
you were born who you were born and
there's a reason why you're here and
it's time to start to figure it out you
build yourself brick by brick like
anybody and if you want to be special
you must become special that's the joy
of life is to decide who you want to
become a become that person doesn't
matter where you start doesn't matter
who you were born to doesn't matter what
your DNA is nothing you can become
anyone you want to become so I have no
doubt that you can become a special I
had no doubt that you can do amazing
things that other people simply believe
are not possible but it's a choice and
it's based on your actions and what you
do and your willingness to suffer and
grow and fail and learn from it and get
back up and claw your way to the top but
it's in your control so the current
state of your life is all your fault
whether that's good or bad but you can
become anything you want just have to
set your mind to it and with that we're
going to have yeah cuz I'm on join us
for another bonus round where it's a
battle royale oh but thank you to Mel
Robbins and Tom bill you alright
our first-ever game show on the set of
impact Theory Studios thanks to our live
audience for joining us and for
participating and playing along
be sure to follow Mel Robbins and Tom
bill you online subscribe to all the
great content and don't miss a very
special event coming to you in just a
few hours from the studio Mel is going
to be doing a live cast with Success
Magazine showing you how to build the
life of your design and use the tools of
confidence courage and clarity to make
it happen tune in at 5:00 p.m. Pacific
Daylight Time go to success com forward
slash impact okay thanks everyone peace
you